# 31 January 2020
## Digital Library Meeting
We have arranged a meeting with Tommaso Vitale, Francesca Tomasi and Francesca Giovannetti to discuss and give an overview of the DL status. These are the points we have focused on:

* What does the "item" and "item-set" represent in Omeka, and what should they represent when when the application of the model is established.     
* Together with Tommaso we have successfully found a solution in order to make the DL items metadata available even if the item is private. 
* Together with F.Tomasi and F.Giovannetti we have largely discussed the model and the basic concepts that it should be taken in consideration. A crucial point according to F.Giovannetti is to clarify whether the Omeka Item is the "Record" of the item or a physical representation of the item.

## Retraction analysis: annotations

###Processing heuristics 
* The third category of the citing intent (practically referring to the cited entity content), only if the citing article is making explicitly use of the cited content in his own research. If he is telling things in a passive voice, we can’t be sure he is telling such things as to take support from or use such data in his own article. E.g. “10.1177/1362361399003001005”  

	> “Problems with intestinal permeability have been found in a proportion of children with autism (D’Eufemia et al., 1996). Similarly, the gastrointestinal findings following measles-mumps-rubella immunization (MMR) reported by Wakefield et al. (1998) suggest impaired intestinal function and increased permeability. The increased levels of IAG3 and other, as yet unidentified, compounds found in the urine of people with tenuous autism also provides support for the existence of an abnormally porous intestinal membrane. ;;”  

	Here we can’t be sure he is obtaining support from the cited article or just discussing/qualifying the cited article content.
	
* When the author is talking with a passive voice usually I can’t report a sentiment rather than "neutral".
* When the author is disputing the cited entity with a passive modality. For instance, by citing the options which are in disagree with him. The associated sentiment is usually “neutral”.

###General notes
* A special case where the reported sentiment is “negative”, but the negativity is toward something else:
> “There are less extreme cases: patients’ high demand to be prescribed antibiotics for coughs and colds; doctors’ over-zealous prescribing of antibiotics and the pharmaceutical companies at the end of the line churning out the antibiotics and promoting them. There are further examples, such as allegations [26] and counter-allegations [27] over an alleged link between the MMR vaccine and autism. I warn you that this is all bad news for us, the pharmaceutical industry, and each of us who work in it."

## Retraction analysis
After the last meeting with Silvio we have decided to split the citations into 3 different phases: (a) **1998 - 2004(included)** (b) **2005 - 2010** (c) **2011 - 2017**. Which corresponds to the periods (a) before the partial retraction; (b) after the partial retraction (2004); (c) after the final retraction (2010). 
The summary of this week work:

1. Split the citations into three different phases
2. Look again at the citations intents marked as "obtains background from" and "disputes". Since these operation consists into a further look at the annotated dataset, I have decided to have a general look to all the dataset once again and for the final time. This operation took again a lot of time, but it helped me be completely sure about the annotated dataset. 
3. Calculating again all the previous stats for the 3 different stages.
4. Move on the analysis of the document sources. See the next sub-section.

### Citations sources
I have retrieved from the COCI dataset the "source title" and "source id" (ISSN or ISBN) of all the Citations involved. The next step was categorising them into Subjects/Domains.  
In order to get the Categories and Disciplines of the citing DOIs, I have used the [https://www.scimagojr.com/](https://www.scimagojr.com/) service. This operation have been made again with a manual website query and annotation, therefore it took a lot of time. The citations which have been taken in consideration in this case are those that have an ISSN source ID. The values retrieved from *scimagojr* for each Journal are the "Subject" and "Area".
A possible solution to involve the books (ISBNs), could be to query [https://isbndb.com/](https://isbndb.com/).