# 10 January 2020
## Retraction analysis
I have finished the annotation of all the post retraction citations, and I have just started to process the pre retraction citations. I am currently collecting all the citation pointers of all the pre retraction articles (as I did in the post-retraction case), I have finished the data collection of almost 50% of all the post retraction articles.  
I am pretty much confident I will finish all the analysis at the end of next week. Here I mention some notes I have wrote down while doing this elaboration. I will discuss some of these points together with Silvio next week hopefully.
###Processing notes:

* To determine wether an article has mentioned the fact that the article analysed has been retracted, it should:
	* Explicitly say “retracted”. 
	* Implicitly say it, for instance using the following words: “the	discredited research “, “a faulty paper”, “the disproven”,“withdrawn".
	
* When relating to the <PAPER> as: “The fraudulent”/“The infamous/“not borne out by science”/“lacked a scientific basis”,"later studies showed no evidence for these claims”. We can’t say for sure that the author is saying the article was retracted. Although in many of these cases it could be assigned to a negative sentiment.

* Look at the citation example on line 109. In this case the author is citing the <PAPER> in order to refer to one of its characteristic: in this case its publication date. Should we consider the fact of adding a new object-property.   

 