# 17 January 2020
## Retraction analysis: Notes Summary
###A processing heuristic
*“The saga of measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccination and autism started when Wakefield et al. reported a series of 12 cases that allegedly developed regressive autism after receiving MMR vaccination. The symptoms were apparently mediated by MMR vaccine-induced enterocolitis that, in turn, allowed neurotoxic metabolites to be absorbed from the gut (129,130). However, population-based studies of autism have not found any association between autism and MMR vaccination (131,132)."*

The corresponding “citation reason” and “sentiment” could be defined in several ways:

* 1) “credits/discusses” | “negative/neutral"
* 2) “disputes” | “neutral
            
The second choice is the one I have adopted. My interpretation is summarised as following: 
Although the author is not directly disputing the cited article, he is mentioning other studies which have been critical regarding it. Therefore, although indirectly, the author mention his doubts by mentioning and citing the works/articles which have already done that.  

###A processing heuristic 
When the analysed citation pointer can be attributed to more than 1 citation reason on Cito, I will choose the one which sounds more suitable, or take a random choice.

###A processing heuristic 
In case the citation is part of a one line including only it. e,g. a section title, a table cell. We will attribute the “obtains background from” value to its citation reason. E.g. doi=“10.1002/asi.22968”.  

###A processing heuristic 
A “yes” value, will be attributed to the “mentions the retraction” field, only if the word “retraction” (its derivates) is mentioned in all the other cases the corresponding value will be “No”. 
If the author is somehow citing the retraction review, but is not mentioning any word/phrase which makes the reader infer the retraction. The corresponding value is still “No”. E.g. “10.1007/s00103-010-1234-5”.

###A doubt
Look at the example of doi=10.12968/pnur.2011.22.2.78. What can we say about the “retraction” field.

### General note
An example that enforces the fact that we are considering a pre-sentence:  
*“The gluten-free, casein-free diet (GFCF) arose as the result of a recognition that a very large percentage of children with autism exhibit signs of impaired gastrointestinal (GI) function. A 1998 study of 12 children with autism showed that 10 had endoscopically confirmed evidence of ileal lymphoid nodular hyperplasia, and 8 had additional abnormalities in their intesti- nal mucosa.2
According to the “leaky gut syndrome” theory, the intestinal mucosal barrier has been compromised in individuals with autism. ;;”*

The fact that the sentence before the sentences of citation pointer is taken in consideration, helps us evaluate correctly the “Citation reason” in this case. We can attribute therefore the Cito property “cites as evidence” rather than “describes” in case we had omitted the pre-sentence, as in the following example:   
 “A 1998 study of 12 children with autism showed that 10 had endoscopically confirmed evidence of ileal lymphoid nodular hyperplasia, and 8 had additional abnormalities in their intesti- nal mucosa.2 
According to the “leaky gut syndrome” theory, the intestinal mucosal barrier has been compromised in individuals with autism. ;;”

### General note
Try read this as a Machine and as a Human.  
*“A pediatrician might diagnose a small child's illness as a simple virus, whereas a mother might claim to "know her own child best" and demand treatment when such treatment was not needed and might have repercussions for her child's health. 
In February 2010, 12 years after its original publication, the Lancet retracted a now infamous study linking the MMR vaccine to autism and ignited a media firestorm (Editors, 2010; Wakefield, 1998). This retraction came only days after medical officials in the United Kingdom found Dr. Andrew Wakefield, the author of the study, guilty of a multitude of ethics violations. "*  

When reading this as a Human, I know the second sentence is mentioned as an example of what have been discussed/defined in the first sentence/paragraph. While if we try to think what a machine could infer from this, we are almost sure it will not find any association between the two sentences.

  

 