# 24 January 2020
## Digital Library Meeting
I have arranged a meeting with Tommaso Vitale, and discussed/talked about the following points:

1. The Digital Library got an accessible address: [https://dl.ficlit.unibo.it/](https://dl.ficlit.unibo.it/)
2. The elements that the digital library visitors can view, are those made public.
3. We have managed to establish a privilege assignment to the visitors according to their role. 
The roles are: Researcher -> Author -> Reviewer -> Editor. 
We will create a login page which let visitors log into the digital library with their role. An internal Researcher (FICLIT professors) will have the possibility to look at all the items included in the Library, without the ability to modify any element in it. 

## Retraction analysis: annotations

###Processing heuristics 
* If the author mention the fact that the analysed paper ha been retracted, this does not mean that his sentiment regarding it is “negative”. Unless he is mentioning other relevant words that might let us suspect that. 

###General notes
* I have also annotated the citations coming from the articles published in the 2010. The in-text reference pointers extracted will be part of the pre-retraction set. This choice have been made since it’s highly possible that the majority of these articles regarding the fact that they have been published on 2010, have been written before (therefore before the retraction also).

* Another possible way to check whether an article (with a specific DOI) has been retracted is to use http://openretractions.com/ service. This service provide an API service also (e.g. )

## Retraction analysis: results analysis
Here you can find a document containing the first analysis made on the  annotated citations database. [PDF Document](img/pre-post_retraction_stats.pdf) 