# 8 November 2019

***
## Digital Library 
Together with Tommaso we talked about the last week issues:

* The exporting formats: we have added the possibility to export the Digital Library items in “JSON-LD” format. We will try to figure out a way to integrate also the "RDF XML”, and “N-Triple” formats, since these options are not integrated inside Omeka-s. A possible solution could involve the usage of the “RDFLIB” library an its REST API service “http://rdf-translator.appspot.com/“. 

* Since the elements we are integrating (and we have already integrated), are continually increasing, together with Tommaso Vitale we decided to explore the possibility of creating such integrations as general plug-ins which could be used by the Omega-s community.

* Tommaso will talk with Professor Citti, and propose him the installation of a parallel platform which will store all the Micro-Films items. These items are all protected and accessible only for internal “unibo” members.    

* On Monday 11 November, I have a meeting with Tommaso Vitale and Francesca Giovanetti, which will work the definition of the digital library data model.    

## “Authority" in citations analysis: an literature overview

### Trust and Authority in Scholarly Communications in the Light of the Digital Transition [1]
**How this work has been conducted:**  
“The overall study is international, although the emphasis of this paper is on the situation in the USA and UK and the study also focuses mainly on science and social science. Three methodologies (focus groups, critical incident interviews and questionnaires) were used in the broader study, but here we concentrate on the results of the focus groups, the first methodology to be employed.” [1]

**...**  
“In the focus groups few researchers really explained head-on with what they deemed to be reliability, quality and trustworthiness. Discussions usually turned into a debate about the relative merits of personal vs. proxy methods (e.g., citation metrics) of establishing reliability and quality. In general trustworthiness, a word they mainly preferred to use, was all down to the reputation of the author or journal in their research speciality. Quality could be best determined by personal inspection and judgment, but because of a shortage of time, too much material to get through and the strictures of their managers and institutions (in respect to publishing in high Impact Factor journals, for instance) this was not always feasible.” [1]

**Some Citing behaviours are driven for some precise reasons according to this article:**   
“Citation behaviour was not as liberal as use or reading behaviour. Authors weigh up sources carefully before they cite, generally rejecting social media in the process. There are political issues to consider; they need to cover their backs; there are people you have to cite to get accepted; you only have real choice over a few of your citations. There is a lot of window dressing involved in citing.
A number of citation practices and requirements were mentioned:
1) Cite your own work to raise your H index.
2) Cite papers in journal to which you submit.
3) Reviewers sometimes ask you to cite their own papers and you do it to increase the
prospects of being published.
4) Cite very high impact articles because they set the agenda and represent the very
pinnacles of science (halo effect).
5) Cite post hoc – use citations to support your position, give your ideas more weight;
this is particularly important if your ideas are novel or controversial. 6) Cite the first published source on the topic and the most recent one. 7) Cite review articles as a bibliographical shorthand.” [1]

*[1] Trust and Authority in Scholarly Communications in the Light of the Digital Transition: setting the scene for a major study https://doi.org/10.1087/20140206*  

 