# 14 February 2020
## Retraction analysis: research questions

* Is it possible to define an automatic process for the classification of the in-text references intents ? (Very General and might open up for a large number of sub-questions)

* Looking at the “Sentiment”, “Cito classification” and the “Section” is it possible to define a decision tree with a bottom-up strategy to annotate these values ?

> For instance:  
> intentsSet = CitoClasses  
> intentsSet = sec_subSet(intentsSet, SECTION)   
> intentsSet = sentiment_subSet(intentsSet, SENTIMENT)   
> intentsSet = topicModelling_subSet(intentsSet, INTEXT-REF-CONTEXT)    
**Note:** We can think that this above description might lead to a probability distribution over the Cito Classes, rather than give an absolute solution (subset of Cito classes)

* Is there any metric/function we can define to establish the retraction perception/repercussions regarding a specific domain. e.g. the discipline, or the venue. ? (this means we should consider retraction in other domains, e.g. humanities)

* In case we define an automatic classification for the citation function. (Even if partila: retraction case). We can try compare the retraction cases of Hard Science vs Humanities. What are the similar/different behaviours?   
E.g. In Humanities the citations coming after the retraction date are less critique than the Hard Science cases, and tend to dispute the retracted article without giving an absolute strong reaction to it.

##Retraction analysis: Wakefield case of study research questions

1. How does the retraction of an article effect its same domain/discipline incoming citations and those coming from other domains, from a quantitative and qualitative point of view ?

2. Starting from a precise defined methodology, is it possible to establish a distribution of probability for the assignment of a Cito object-property for the in-text references, considering a set of features ?

##Meeting with the PalRead team
Together with Marilena we have organised a meeting with the PalRead team: a project which main aim is collecting and digitalising the Palestine literature. We wrote down a price estimation considering the features and work requested.

##Seminary on Giorgio Pasquali
A seminary on "Giorgio Pasquali", a "Didattica Comune" activity.

##Meeting with Silvio
After a meeting with Silvio we have decided:

1. to move my second research question of the Wakefield article: “Starting from a precise defined methodology, is it possible to establish a distribution of probability for the assignment of a Cito object-property for the in-text references, considering a set of features ?” Into another completely separated article and submit it to STI2020 (http://sti2020.org/)
2. To extend the research questions in the “Wakefield retraction article”. Maybe separate the quantitative and qualitative analysis, and introduce the Topic Modelling analysis to them.
3. Regarding the “SAGE Concept Grant” Silvio’s suggestion is to, (a) focus and stress the fact that we are producing a software which has been build for Social Scientists, (b) talk about the workshop done in Lisbon, (c) Tell the fact that workshops and research fellow contracts are the mechanisms we are wishing to use in order to extend this tool potentials. 
    



 