# 7 February 2020
## Retraction analysis: ISBN sources
In order to classify the ISBNs Sources into the Scimago Subjects/Areas classification (as we have already done with the ISSNs). We will take these steps:

1. Get all the documents having ISBN id value from the list of all the citing sources in coci.
2. Get the LCC code of each ISBN from the dataset already generated from the work done by Silvio.
3. Find a Scimago mapping to such values following a bottom-up approach.
	* List all the LCC codes.
	* Considering the starting alphabetic letters find the corresponding LCC subject.
	*  Find the most suitable subject from the Scimago subjects list.
	* For all the other codes with unrecognised subjects, look manually for each special case. 


##Meeting with Angelo and Francesco
Together with Angelo and Francesco from the DASPLAB, Marilena and Silvio. We have discussed about our works and how these might combine together, and assist each other. The current Idea is to try testing the Method/Model I have used while annotating the in-text references of the citing documents. We need a larger datas.et which might represent the same case I have studied (Retracted article).
After a 2 hour meeting we have established the steps to start with, here are the things I must do:

* Randomly select around 30 retracted article from the “Health Science” domain. I will give this subset of retracted articles to Marilena, which will get all the citing documents in PubMed published before and after the retraction date.
* I will normalise my in-text references dataset in an acceptable format to the classification algorithm used by Angelo and Francesco. 

##Retraction analysis: Retracted citing a Retracted ! 
Another attribute to check was whether is there any article from the citing dataset which have been retracted as well. 
I have used again the [http://retractiondatabase.org/](http://retractiondatabase.org/) service, and searched for each different DOI of my dataset. 
Only one retracted article has been found: 

**10.1111/j.1572-0241.2000.03248.x** : Enterocolitis in children with developmental disorders


##The Digital Library: meeting with Tommaso 
Tommaso called me to discuss and have support on some technical aspects regarding Omeka-s. One of the main issues we have been working on is to define an automatic process on the association of a list of media resources to a given item, and be able to update the same item in the future.   
We have wrote down a script which calls the Omeka-s API and could update an item with a list of given media. This approach will be adopted in the future for the ingestion of new items and there related media.   
One other potential extra feature we are working on, is to associate an index to the items visualised via Mirador. This will facilitate the navigation through the scanned media resources. 
 


 