# 28 February 2020

##Retraction analysis: things to keep in mind

**A possible future work**   
“How much is important and influential being a domain expert to correctly annotate the in-text references of the documents related to such domain?” E.G.  

> "Gastrointestinal symptoms, such as diarrhea, constipation, and abdominal dis- tension appear to be common in autistic children. Recently, Wakefield et al. [4] proposed a possible association of autism and IBD, based on an uncontrolled study of 12 autistic children. They reported prominent ileal lymphoid hyperplasia and ileocolitis in this initial study."

Does the “uncontrolled” word means a negative thing in the medicine field too as it is in general common sense.

**A possible future work**   
“How much is important and influential to have a background on the cited article to correctly annotate the in-text citations?” E.g. 
>“However, the recent drop in uptake of MMR vaccine (Wakefield et al, 1998; DeStafano et al, 2000) is of great concern, and immunization of siblings and social contacts remains extremely important if cases are to be avoided. There has also been a reduction in deaths owing to chickenpox and herpes simplex viruses with the standard management of passive immunization and acyclovir therapy.;;"

I know the citation intent wants to give credit Wakefield et.al. article for the negative "recent drop in uptake of MMR vaccine”. Although I can deduce this considering the background I have on the Wakefield article.
Same situation in this example:  
>"In many countries of the region, these factors have led to the accumulation of susceptible younger and older persons who have not received the two doses of measles vaccine needed to interrupt indigenous measles transmission. 
Immunization programs in some countries have also been affected by the claim that measles vaccine given as MMR may be associated with a syndrome of inflammatory bowel disease and developmental disorders such as autism [13, 14]. Although epidemiologic studies [15] and assessments [16, 17] have been published in the medical literature, the concerns of the public and health professionals do not appear to have been adequately addressed."

**Other notes**  

* The tenses of the verbs used are crucial. For instance, mentioning other works which manifested negative statements on the entity I am citing. Does this mean I am “Critical” regarding it !? 

* We need to be careful while assigning some Cito Object Properties. For instance, “discuss” means the author is discussing materials/concepts which are included in the cited article, or does he is also discussing related stuff which are not explicitly included in the article. E.g.
>“Physician–researcher Andrew Wakefield and two of his colleagues are in the middle of a hearing before Britain's General Medical Council, which is investigating charges that could cost the doctors their medical licenses. In 1998, this trio (with many others) published an article indicating that there were possible harms from the MMR vaccine2 (thimerosal was not blamed, since it was not used in the British vaccine); the journal has since stated that it should not have published the article in the way that it did,3 and nearly all the authors have retracted their initial interpretation of their findings.4 The case against Wakefield and his colleagues is based primarily on accusations about the way the research was conducted, and one charge is that Wakefield failed to disclose his connections to lawyers involved in vaccine litigation.;;"

##Annotating Marilena's dataset
I have finished annotating the sub-dataset of pubmed in-text citations assigned to me by Marilena. 

##MITAO article for PIJ
I have finished writing the first draft regarding the technical sections in the MITAO article for PIJ. The article index (the bold sections are the parts I have wrote):

* Introduction
* State of the art: how to perform Topic Modeling
* **MITAO**
	* **Architecture of MITAO**
	* **Tech aspects**
* **Topic modelling with MITAO: a use case**
* MITAO now and then
* Conclusions
 




    



 