# 1 November 2019

***
## Digital Library 
I have arranged a meeting with Tommaso Vitale and the laboratory team to check to have an overview of the limitations/problems emerged: 

* The laboratory teams are elaborating/scanning some micro-films which are (according to the laboratory team) all protected, and could not be published/exposed out of the unibo net. **A possible solution** might be (as also suggested by Silvio Peroni) create a parallel repository which will not use Omeka-s and will integrate all these protected elements.
* The items of the digital library should also be exported in JSON format. We already have available the iiif format, which is in json format and incorporate a large number of properties.

## Ph.D Research question
I have started once again reading the previous and new materials, articles and documents, from a new perspective. As also suggested by Silvio I will leave the dataset and the analysis to a second phase, while at this point I will try to infer some new ideas questions to focus on by reading the previous experience/works done.  
This week I have dedicated 2 days on this problem, and I have not been able to still write down something meaningful. 
A good point to work on has been raised from a conversation with Marilena D'acquino: the idea is to work on the trustiness of the citations, and to focus specially on the Books of Humanities which are not peer reviewed, but still their authors gain trust and popularity from the citations they receive.
 