# 29 November 2019

***
##Retraction analysis: A brief sum-up after my last meeting with Silvio  
On my last meeting with Silvio we have discussed together the results obtained for the two DOIs I have analysed ([https://ivanhb.github.io/edu/diary/2019/11/img/ret.pdf](https://ivanhb.github.io/edu/diary/2019/11/img/ret.pdf), the main points we have talked about are:

* The overall analysis and process looks fine for both me and Silvio.
* I should take in consideration also the citations which occurred **before** the retraction date, along side the citations **after** the retraction date.
* I can still consider the **Year** as the date to take in consideration for all the citations taken in consideration, although we might go further in the future analysis, and try to get more precise also in the date value.
* When analysing each citation I should keep track of the citation reasons **for each occurrence in the full text**. In addition, I should also keep track of the **abstracts** of each citing document. This final aspect is crucial when moving to automatic text analysis (e.g. topic modelling).
* I will store in a more organising schema all the full texts analysed (maybe with their corresponding citations annotated, or saved separately). This will simplify the future re-elaborations of these elements, and the process definition.
* A good suggestion by Silvio is to use also: [https://archive.org/web/](https://archive.org/web/) service to keep track of the webpage changes over the time (before, and after the retraction). This will become meaningful in the future analysis, e.g. when trying to explain **“why authors keep citing retracted articles?**" 
* I can also take in consideration a **"hard science”** article (e.g. the “vax" article), for a possible comparison with the Humanities articles results.

On the following next steps of this analysis I will try to apply the same analysis on at least 2 more HUM articles, and one from the “Hard Science” domain. These new analysis will take in consideration all the above points, in order to get a more organised schema and analysis method.


##Retraction analysis: other retracted articles 

###one more HUM article
I have analysed this new article from the Arts domain:  

**Title:** "The Effect Of Auditory Versus Visual Violent Media Exposure On Aggressive Behaviour: The Role Of Song Lyrics, Video Clips And Musical Tone"  
 **DOI:** 10.1016/j.jesp.2011.02.006  
 **Citations number in COCI:** 14  
 **Publication date:** 2011  
 **Retraction date:** 08/11/2015(%m/%d/%Y)  
 **Retraction reasons:** +Error in Data+Error in Methods+Error in Text+Investigation by Company/Institution

The results of this analysis are in [this document](img/2.pdf)

#### Notes:
* One important issue raised from my analysis of the citing documents citations context, was the fact that some contexts didn’t express any sentiment regarding the cited retracted article. Although while reading the article (some parts of it) I found out that such article (the majority of cases a “Review Article”) was critical toward the retracted article, and has expressed his disapproval to it. 
E.g. Citing article: “10.2478/v10011-011-0004-8” -> Cited article: “10.1016/S0140-6736(97)11096-0” (retracted article "Ileal-lymphoid-nodular Hyperplasia, Non-specific Colitis, and Pervasive Developmental Disorder in Children" )
* I am facing significant difficulties in the attribution of a corresponding Cito Object property to the citations analysed, sometimes I feel very confused in it and cannot figure out a correct attribution.

###Analysing a hard-science article: "Ileal-lymphoid-nodular Hyperplasia, Non-specific Colitis, and Pervasive Developmental Disorder in Children" 


#### Processing notable facts:
* On line 42 of the analysed DOIs the citation reason is “cites as evidence”. But in this case we might go further and say this is actually a "cites as bad behaviour evidence/example”. A good example of this is line 35 which cites the retracted article as “cites as evidence” but in this case the cited article is not taken as bad example and its information are used with no negative discussions on them (at least from what the citation context shows). Another example of this is present in line 22.
* On line 41 the citation reason is close to something like:”cites as an effect” which later is confirmed to be a bad effect on “something".
* On line 28 “The report was later found to be fraudulent” I think this could be considered as “retracts"
* The articles of this editor are hard to find https://www.magonlinelibrary.com/, DOI-Prefix: 10.12968 DOI-Prefix: 10.12968
 
