# 24 April 2020
##The CWTS Scientometrics Summer School
The participants are asked to give an opinion on how to deal with it. My opinion (considering the given options) is to cancel this year registration, and wait for the next year. I also added:
"I feel this would be the best solution. Even though we might get/learn the same materials with a remote approach, I prefer a summer school on site since I would like to have a personal and direct approach with the tutors and the other participants. I also exclude the second option (postpone until the autumn), since this I will be involved in the local activities of my university.”

##PalRead project
I talked with Marilena on Tuesday, and we decided to arrange a dynamic work section regarding this project on Friday (22 of April). The [https://github.com/dharc-org/palread-import-omekas](https://github.com/dharc-org/palread-import-omekas) repository contains all the project materials. The directory [https://github.com/dharc-org/palread-import-omekas/tree/master/script](https://github.com/dharc-org/palread-import-omekas/tree/master/script) contains the materials I am working on. The `omeka_handler.py` script is the main/core of my work. This script should handle the Omeka-S operations for a given configuration. We need to guarantee the Add/Update/Delete operations using the Omeka APIs.   

##From protocols.io to the article
Since I have finished with the definition of the methodology on “protocols”, I started adapting its contents into the article. On the article I will not mention the same details discussed in the “protocols.io” version. The Idea is to cite the “protocols.io” methodology (once published), give an overview of the methodology, and focus on the main parts of it. 
