# 10 April 2020
## In-text citations annotation methodology
I have almost finished the methodology description on [protocols.io](https://www.protocols.io/). I have worked on guaranteeing a parallel execution of a Python script (.py) for each step/sub-step defined in the methodology. For instance, a user will execute the following script right after reading the description of the sub-step (3.1):

```python3 method.py -s 3.1 -in "<CitsDataset-Path>"```  

The methodology will have only one Python script: ```method.py```. Users specify the step/sub-step to execute using the ```-s``` parameter. If the corresponding step needs an input, the related input is defined with the ```-in``` parameter.
Along with the pure Python script (.py), the methodology will have a corresponding Python notebook (.ipynb). The Python notebook does the same operations of the python script. Users can decide which solution to adopt.    

**Question for Silvio:** why we decided to consider only one CiTo (Object Property) value. Although in many cases the citation intent might be assigned to more than only 1 intent (CiTo object property) ? 

##Paper on RAMOSE
Marilena has done some corrections on the first draft of RAMOSE. Following its corrections, I have fixed some issues she pointed out.
Other issues (commented into the google document) need a further consultation with Silvio. I guess we need to discuss them together before moving on.  

##PalRead Project
Together with Marilena and Tommaso Vitale we had officially started working on the OmekaS platform needed for the PalRead project. I need to build up a script for the integration of the items dynamically into the OmekaS repository. The items should respect the model definition of Marilena. 
